
1. Preparation
- Make sure you are running this on a VM, as required by the subject.

- Ensure Docker and Docker Compose are installed and running:
    - run 
    
2. Build and Launch
Clean up any previous containers/volumes:

Run: make fclean
This will remove all containers, networks, and volumes related to your project.
Build and start all services:

Run: make build
This will build all Docker images and start the containers.
Check running containers:

Run: docker ps
Confirm that all expected containers (nginx, wordpress, mariadb, redis, ftp, adminer, static-site, portainer) are up.
3. Functional Tests
Mandatory Services
NGINX:

Open https://demrodri.42.fr in your browser (or use your login domain).
Confirm it loads over HTTPS (TLSv1.2/1.3).
Check that only port 443 is open for NGINX.
WordPress:

Access the WordPress site via NGINX.
Log in with both admin and regular user credentials.
Confirm you can create posts/pages.
MariaDB:

Confirm WordPress connects to MariaDB (site loads, no DB errors).
Check that the database and users are created as expected.
Volumes:

Stop and restart containers (make down then make build).
Confirm WordPress data and DB persist (no data loss).
Network:

Confirm all containers are on the same custom docker-network.
Bonus Services
Redis:

Confirm WordPress caching works (install Redis plugin if needed).
FTP:

Connect to FTP server using provided credentials.
Confirm access to WordPress files.
Adminer:

Access Adminer at http://localhost:8080.
Log in and view/manage the database.
Static Site:

Access the static site at http://localhost:80.
Portainer:

Access Portainer at http://localhost:9000 or https://localhost:9443.
Confirm you can manage Docker containers.
4. Security and Compliance Checks
No passwords in Dockerfiles:

Double-check Dockerfiles for hardcoded secrets.
Environment variables and secrets:

Confirm sensitive info is passed via .env and secrets (update to use Docker secrets if needed).
No infinite loops/tail -f:

Check entrypoint scripts for forbidden patterns.
Domain name:

Confirm demrodri.42.fr resolves to your VM’s IP.
5. Logs and Debugging
View logs:

Run: make logs
Check for errors or warnings in container logs.
Check container health:

Run: docker ps --format "table {{.Names}}\t{{.Status}}"
All containers should show “Up”.
6. Clean Up
Stop all containers:

Run: make down
Remove all data:

Run: make fclean
7. Peer-Evaluation Checklist
All requirements met (see previous analysis).
Bonus part only evaluated if mandatory is perfect.
No public credentials in repo.
All files/folders named correctly.
